Adjust and public changefeed doc (#11515)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/changefeed-sink-to-mysql.md

# Sink to MySQL

This document describes how to stream data from TiDB Cloud to MySQL using the **Sink to MySQL** changefeed.

> **Note:**
>

> > If you have want to use the Changefeed feature, make sure that your TiDB cluster version is at least v6.4.0 and the TiKV node size is at least 8 vCPU and 16 GiB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> To use the Changefeed feature, make sure that your TiDB cluster version is v6.4.0 or later and the TiKV node size is at least 8 vCPU and 16 GiB.
```

2. [Set up a VPC peering connection](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md) between the VPC of the MySQL service and your TiDB cluster. 
3. Modify the ingress firewall rules of the VPC where MySQL is located.

>     You must add [the CIDR of the Region where your TiDB Cloud cluster is located](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#prerequisite-set-a-project-cidr) to the ingress firewall rules. Doing so allows the traffic to flow from your TiDB Cluster to the MySQL endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You must add [the CIDR of the Region where your TiDB Cloud cluster is located](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#prerequisite-set-a-project-cidr) to the ingress firewall rules. Doing so allows the traffic to flow from your TiDB Cluster to the MySQL endpoint. 
```

    SET GLOBAL tidb_gc_life_time = '720h';
    ```

> 2. Use [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md#export-data-from-tidbmysql) to export data from your TiDB cluster, then use [TiDB Lightning logical import](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-logical-import-mode-usage.md) to load data to the MySQL service.

Author: ```suggestion
2. Use [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) to export data from your TiDB cluster, then use community tools such as [mydumper/myloader](https://centminmod.com/mydumper.html) to load data to the MySQL service.
```

After completing the prerequisites, you can sink your data to MySQL.

1. Navigate to the **Data Replication** > **Changefeed** tab of your TiDB cluster.

2. Click **Sink to MySQL**.

3. Fill in the MySQL Endpoints, user, and password in **MySQL Connection**.

> 4. Optionally, if you need to configure the following advanced options, you can click on **Show advanced configuration**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. (Optional) If you need to configure the following advanced options, click on **Show advanced configuration**.
```

    - In **Timezone**, you can select the timezone used to convert time type data, like `timestamp`.

> 5. Click **Next** to test connectivity
>     - If the connectivity of MySQL is fine, it will go to the next step of configuration.
>     - Otherwise, it will display the connectivity error, which you need to deal with the error before clicking **Next** again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Click **Next** to test whether TiDB connects to MySQL successfully:

    - If yes, you are directed to the next step of configuration.
    - If not, the connectivity error is displayed, and you need to handle the error. After the error is removed, click **Next** again.
```

> 6. **Table Filter** provides a simple way to filter the tables that need to be replicated by customing [table filter rules](/table-filter.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Customize **Table Filter** to filter the tables that you want to replicate. For the rule syntax, refer to [table filter rules](/table-filter.md)
```

>     - Defaultlly there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. Whenever you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud will query all the tables in TiDB and display the tables that can be replicated in the list box on the right.  **Note:** The list box on the right does not show the new tables to be replicated in the future, and the schema to be full replicated.
>     - TiDB Cloud also lists tables that do not have unique and primary keys, and these tables may have inconsistent data in downstream during replication due to interrupt recovery. You can choose, not to replicate all tables that do not have unique and primary keys, or replicate these tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    - By default, there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. When you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud queries all the tables in TiDB and displays the tables that can be replicated in the list box on the right.  
        - The list box on the right does not show the new tables to be replicated in the future or the schema to be fully replicated.
    - TiDB Cloud also lists tables that do not have unique and primary keys. These tables may have inconsistent data in the downstream cluster during replication due to interrupt recovery. You can choose whether or not to replicate tables that do not have unique and primary keys.
```

> 7. In **Start Position**, configure the starting position for your sink
>     - If you do [Full load data](#full-load-data), you must fill in the TSO that Dumpling provides in **Start replication from a specific TSO**.
>     - If you do not have any data in your TiDB Cluster, you can choose **Start replication from now on**.
>     - Otherwise, you can custom the start time point by choosing **Start replica from a specific time**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. In **Start Position**, configure the starting position for your sink.

    - If you do [full load data](#full-load-data), you must fill in the TSO that Dumpling provides in **Start replication from a specific TSO**.
    - If you do not have any data in your TiDB cluster, you can choose **Start replication from now on**.
    - Otherwise, you can customize the start time point by choosing **Start replication from a specific time**.
```

> 7. Click **Next** to Changefee Preview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Click **Next** to preview the changefeed.

```

>     - if you want to modify some configurations, click **Previous** to go back to the previous page.
>     - Othwise, Check the compliance of cross region replication prompt, and click **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Check the compliance of cross-region replication prompt, and click **Create**.
    
    If you want to modify some configurations, click **Previous** to go back to the previous page.
```

> 8. After a while, the sink will begin its work, and the status of the sink will be changed to "**Running**".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. The sink starts its work soon, and you can see the status of the sink change to "**Running**".

```

>     - Clicking on the Changefeed card, then you can see the Changfefeed running status in a pop-up window, including Checkpoint, replication latency, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Click on the **Changefeed** card, and you can see the Changfeed running status in a pop-up window, including Checkpoint, replication latency, and other metrics.
```

> 9. Optionally, after the operation is complete, set the GC time back (the default value is `10m`):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. (Optional) After the operation is completed, restore the GC time to its original value (the default value is `10m`):
```

After completing the prerequisites, you can sink your data to MySQL.

1. Navigate to the **Data Replication** > **Changefeed** tab of your TiDB cluster.

2. Click **Sink to MySQL**.

3. Fill in the MySQL Endpoints, user name, and password in **MySQL Connection**.

4. Click **Next** to test whether TiDB connects to MySQL successfully:

    - If yes, you are directed to the next step of configuration.

>     - If not, the connectivity error is displayed, and you need to handle the error. After the error is resolved, click **Next** again.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If not, a connectivity error is displayed, and you need to handle the error. After the error is resolved, click **Next** again.
```

> 5. Customize **Table Filter** to filter the tables that you want to replicate. For the rule syntax, refer to [table filter rules](/table-filter.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Customize **Table Filter** to filter the tables that you want to replicate. For the rule syntax, refer to [table filter rules](/table-filter.md).
```

>     - **Add filter rules**: you can set filter rules in this column. By default, there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. When you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud queries all the tables in TiDB and displays the tables that can be replicated in the list box on the right. Instructions for use:

Reviewer 3: What is "Instructions for use:"?

Reviewer: It should be removed.

>     - **Add filter rules**: you can set filter rules in this column. By default, there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. When you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud queries all the tables in TiDB and displays the tables that can be replicated in the list box on the right. Instructions for use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Add filter rules**: you can set filter rules in this column. By default, there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. When you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud queries all the tables in TiDB and displays the tables that can be replicated in the list box on the right.
```

>     - **Add filter rules**: you can set filter rules in this column. By default, there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. When you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud queries all the tables in TiDB and displays the tables that can be replicated in the list box on the right.  Instructions for use:

Author: ```suggestion
    - **Add filter rules**: you can set filter rules in this column. By default, there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. When you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud queries all the tables in TiDB and displays the tables that can be replicated in the list box on the right. Instructions for use:
```

>     - **Tables to be replicated**: this column shows the tables to be replicated. But it does not show the new tables to be replicated in the future or the schema to be fully replicated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - **Tables to be replicated**: this column shows the tables to be replicated. But it does not show the new tables to be replicated in the future or the schemas to be fully replicated.
```

>     - **Tables without valid keys**: this column shows tables that do not have unique and primary keys. Because no unique identifier can be used by the downstream system to handle duplicate events, the data might be inconsistent during replication. We recommend that you add unique keys or primary keys to these tables, or set filter rules, such as filtering out the table `test`.`tbl1` using "!test.tbl1".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - **Tables without valid keys**: this column shows tables without unique and primary keys. For these tables, because no unique identifier can be used by the downstream system to handle duplicate events, their data might be inconsistent during replication. To avoid such issues, it is recommended that you add unique keys or primary keys to these tables before the replication, or set filter rules to filter out these tables. For example, you can filter out the table `test.tbl1` using "!test.tbl1".
```

6. In **Start Position**, configure the starting position for your MySQL sink.

>     - If you have performed [full load data](#full-load-data) using Dumpling, select **Start replication from a specific TSO** and fill in the TSO that you have obtained in Dumpling exported files.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If you have performed [full load data](#full-load-data) using Dumpling, select **Start replication from a specific TSO** and fill in the TSO that you get from Dumpling exported metadata files.
```

    - If you do not have any data in the upstream TiDB cluster, select **Start replication from now on**.
    - Otherwise, you can customize the start time point by choosing **Start replication from a specific time**.

7. Click **Next** to review the Changefeed configuration.

    If you confirm all configurations are correct, check the compliance of cross-region replication, and click **Create**.
    
    If you want to modify some configurations, click **Previous** to go back to the previous configuration page.

> 8. The sink starts its work soon, and you can see the status of the sink change from "**Creating**" to "**Running**".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
8. The sink starts soon, and you can see the status of the sink changes from "**Creating**" to "**Running**".
```

    Click on the **Changefeed** card, and you can see the Changfeed running status in a pop-up window, including Checkpoint, replication latency, and other metrics.

> 9. (Optional) After the operation is completed, restore the GC time to its original value (the default value is `10m`):

Author: 是的

>     Click on the **Sink to MySQL** card, and you can see the Changfeed running status in a pop-up window, including Checkpoint, replication latency, and other metrics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Click the **Sink to MySQL** card, and you can see the Changfeed running status in a pop-up window, including checkpoint, replication latency, and other metrics.
```

> 9. (Optional) After the operation is completed, restore the GC time to its original value (the default value is `10m`):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
9. (Optional) If you have performed [full load data](#full-load-data) using Dumpling, you need to restore the GC time to its original value (the default value is `10m`) after the sink is created:
```

After completing the prerequisites, you can sink your data to MySQL.

1. Navigate to the **Changefeed** tab of your TiDB cluster.

2. Click **Sink to MySQL**.

3. Fill in the MySQL endpoints, user name, and password in **MySQL Connection**.

4. Click **Next** to test whether TiDB can connect to MySQL successfully:

    - If yes, you are directed to the next step of configuration.
    - If not, a connectivity error is displayed, and you need to handle the error. After the error is resolved, click **Next** again.

5. Customize **Table Filter** to filter the tables that you want to replicate. For the rule syntax, refer to [table filter rules](/table-filter.md).

>     - **Add filter rules**: you can set filter rules in this column. By default, there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. When you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud queries all the tables in TiDB and displays the tables that can be replicated in the list box on the right.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - **Add filter rules**: you can set filter rules in this column. By default, there is a rule `*. *`, which stands for replicating all tables. When you add a new rule, TiDB Cloud queries all the tables in TiDB and displays only the tables that match the rules in the box on the right.
```

6. In **Start Position**, configure the starting position for your MySQL sink.

    - If you have performed [full load data](#full-load-data) using Dumpling, select **Start replication from a specific TSO** and fill in the TSO that you get from Dumpling exported metadata files.
    - If you do not have any data in the upstream TiDB cluster, select **Start replication from now on**.
    - Otherwise, you can customize the start time point by choosing **Start replication from a specific time**.

7. Click **Next** to review the Changefeed configuration.

    If you confirm all configurations are correct, check the compliance of cross-region replication, and click **Create**.
    
    If you want to modify some configurations, click **Previous** to go back to the previous configuration page.

8. The sink starts soon, and you can see the status of the sink changes from "**Creating**" to "**Running**".

    Click the **Sink to MySQL** card, and you can see the Changfeed running status in a pop-up window, including checkpoint, replication latency, and other metrics.

> 9. (Optional) If you have performed [full load data](#full-load-data) using Dumpling, you need to restore the GC time to its original value (the default value is `10m`) after the sink is created:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
9. If you have performed [full load data](#full-load-data) using Dumpling, you need to restore the GC time to its original value (the default value is `10m`) after the sink is created:
```

## Delete a Sink

1. Navigate to the **Data Replication** > **Changefeed** tab of a cluster.

> 2. Clicking on the Changefeed card, then click **Delete**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on the **Changefeed** card, and click **Delete**.
```

> ## Puase or Resume a Sink

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pause or resume a Sink
```

1. Navigate to the **Data Replication** > **Changefeed** tab of a cluster.

> 2. Clicking on the Changefeed card, then click **Pause** or **Resume**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on the **Changefeed** card, and click **Pause** or **Resume**.
```

## Query TCU

1. Navigate to the **Data Replication** > **Changefeed** tab of a cluster.

> 2. The current TiCDC Capacity Units are displayed in the upper right corner of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can see the current TiCDC Capacity Units in the upper right corner of the page.
```

## Delete a Sink

1. Navigate to the **Data Replication** > **Changefeed** tab of a cluster.

> 2. Click on the corresponding **Changefeed** card, and click **Delete**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click the corresponding **Changefeed** card, and click **Delete**.
```

## Pause or resume a Sink

1. Navigate to the **Data Replication** > **Changefeed** tab of a cluster.

> 2. Click on the corresponding **Changefeed** card, and click **Pause** or **Resume**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Click the corresponding **Changefeed** card, and click **Pause** or **Resume**.
```

> ## Query TICDC RCUs

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Query TiCDC RCUs
```

1. Navigate to the **Data Replication** > **Changefeed** tab of a cluster.

> 2. You can see the current TiCDC Replication Capacity Units in the upper right corner of the page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. You can see the current TiCDC Replication Capacity Units (RCUs) in the upper-right corner of the page.
```
